Awards to keep an eye on:
PROSE Awards for books on science / general academic books
Bread and Roses Awards for books on activism
Pulitzer Prize for general stuff


ArXiv Papers:



March 29th, 2021:
	- Yang, Uniform l2 Decoupling In R^2 For Polynomials
	- Guo, Kun Li, Yung, Zorin-Kranich, A Short Proof of l2 Decoupling For The Moment Curve
	- Harris, Improved Bounds For Restricted Projection Families Via Weighted Fourier Restriction

April 15th, 2021:
	- Fu, Guth, Maldague, A Decoupling Inequality for Short Generalized Dirichlet Sequences
	- Buczolich, Javenpaa, Javenpaa, Keleti, Poyhtari: Fractal Percolation is Unrectificable
	- Brevig, Ortega-Cerda, Selp, Idempotent Fourier Multipliers Acting Contractively on Hp Spaces
	- Yanina, Massive Helson Sets
	- Park, On the Failure of Multilinear Multiplier Theorem with Endpoint Smoothness Conditions
	- Zhang, Real Analytic, Multi-Parameter Singular Radon Transforms
	- Basu, Guo, Zhang, Kranich, A Stationary Set Method For Estimating Oscillatory Integrals.
	- Forey, Kowalski, Algebraic Curves In Their Jacobian Are Sidon Sets
	- Angel, Ray, Spinka, A Tale of Two Balloons
	- Balka, eElekes, Kiss, Stability and Measurability of the Modified Lower Dimension
	- Castro-Silva, Configuration Avoiding Sets on the Euclidean Space and the Sphere.
	- Bentsen, Lp Regularity Estimates for a Class of Interal Operators with Fold Blowdown Singularities
	- Xu, Sharp Lp Estimates For Degenerate and Singular Oscillatry Integral Operators
	- Fraser, Wheeler, Foureir Dimension Estimates for Sets of Exact Approximation Order
	- Gressman, Lp Improving Estimates for Radon like Operators and the Kakeya Brascam Lieb Inequality
	- Gressman, Geometric Averagting Operators and Nonconcentration Inequalities
	- Oh, Lee, Uniform Stationary Phase Estiamtes with limited Smoothness
	- Robins, A Friendly Introduction to Fourier Analysis on Polytopes
	- Oh, An Improved Bilinear Restirction Estimate for the Paraboloid in R^3
	- Pauw, Density Estimate From below In Relation to a Conjecture of A. Zygmund on Lipschitz Differentiation
	- Basu, Hausdorff Approximations and voloume of Tubes of Singular Algebraic Sets
	- Germain, Leger, Spectral Projectors, Resolvent, and Fourier Restriction on the Hyperbolic Space.

July 16th, 2021

	- Castro-Silva, Geometrical Sets with Forbidden Configurations
	- Agama, On the General No-Three-In-Line Problem
	- Mundici, De Finetti for Mathematics Undergraduates
	- Jones, Potechin, Almost-Orthogonal Bases for Inner Product Polynomials
	- Arman, Rodl, Sales, Independent Sets in Subgraphs of a Shift Graph
	- Alonso, Di Plinio, Parisssis, Vempati, A Metric approach to Sparse Domination
	- Hera, Keleti, Mathe, A Fubini-Type Theorem for Hausdorff Dimension
	- Ban, Hu, Lai, Large Deviation Principle of Multidimensional Multiple Averages on N^d
	- Liu, On the Dimension of Kakeya Sets in the First Heisenberg Group
	- Illiopoulos, Improved Bounds for Coloring Locally Sparse Hypergraphs
	- Balachandran, Kush, The Normalized Matching Property in Random and Pseudorandom Bipartite Graphs
	- Xu, Holomorphic Functional Calculus and Vector-Valued Littlewood-Paley-Stein Theory for Semigroups
	- Chang, Tensor Expander Chernoff Bounds
	- Matilla, Parabolic Rectifiability, Tangent Planes and Tangent Measures
	- Harris, Low Dimensional Pinned Distance Sets via Spherical Averages
	- He, Park, Improved Estimates for Bilinear Rough Singular Integrals
	- Falconer, Fraser, Kaenmaki, Minkowski Dimension for Measures
	- Gan, Jing, Wu, New Bounds for Stein's Square Function in R^3
	- Klaassen, Wellner, Hardy's Inequality and it's Descendents
	- Oh, Small Cap Decoupling Inequalities: Bilinear Methods
	- Haddad, The Ultrafilter: A Peerless Tool
	- Chen, A Brief Introduction to Shannon's Information Theory
	- Rozendaal, Rough Pseudodifferential Operators on Hardy Spaces for Fourier Integral Operators
	- Demeter, Langowski, Restriction of Exponential Sums to Hypersurfaces
	- Guo, Oh, Wang, Wu, Zhang, The Bochner-Riesz Problem: An Old Approach Revisited.
	- Mcdonald, Scheckter, Sukochev, Estimates for Schur Multipliers and Double Operator Integrals -- a Wavelet Approach
	- Koh, Lee, Averages and Maximal Averages Over Product j-Varieties in Finite Fields
	- Mertens, Sommen, Inversions for the Hua-Radon and the Polarized Hua-Radon Transform
	- Bongers, Taylor, Transversal Families of Nonlinear Projections and Generalizations of Favard Length.
	- Mouzard, Zachhuber, Strichartz Inequalities with White Noise Potential on Compact Surfaces
	- Keith, Markowsky, A Theory of Integration for Cesaro Limits
	- Tsai, Density of Random Subsets and Applications to Group Theory
	- Benea, Muscalu, Mixed-Norm Estimates via the Helicoidal Method







Longer Articles / Books To Read Related To My Research:



J.P. Kahane. Probabilities and Baire’s theory in harmonic anal-
ysis. 2000.
	(May 2020): I found a survey on the application of the probabilistic 
	method and the Baire category theorem in Harmonic analysis [7]. I feel
	this method is very exploitable in the types of problems I cur-
	rently deal with, so if only for culture, this should be a useful
	read.
R. Lyons. Seventy years of Rajchman measures. 1995
Jean-Pierre Kahane. Some Random Series of Functions. 1994.
	http://faculty.baruch.cuny.edu/ASheffer/000book.pdf
Christoph Thiele. Wave Packet Analysis. 2006.
	https://bookstore.ams.org/cbms-105
Jacek Bochnak. Real Algebraic Geometry







Math Books I'm Just Interested In:



The Best Writing on Mathematics (Annual Publication)

Jean Dieudonne. History of algebraic geometry. 1985.
	(Slightly Shorter Article by Dieudonne found here https://www.maa.org/sites/default/files/pdf/upload_library/22/Ford/Dieudonne.pdf)
Laszlo Erdos. Lecture Notes on Quantum Brownian Motion. 2010. https://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0843
Anthony Henderson. Representations of Lie Algebras.
Ron Roth. Introduction to Coding Theory.
Robert Gunning. Lectures on Riemann Surfaces / Some Topics in the Function Theory of Compact Riemann Surfaces.
Robert Gunning. Analytic Functions of Several Complex Variables.
Nikulin and Shaferevich. Geometries and Groups.
Shaferevich and Remizov. Linear Algebra and Geometry.
Pierre Bremaud. Fourier Analysis and Stochastic Processes.
Bringmann, Folsom, Ono, Rolen. Harmonic Maass Forms and Mock Modular Forms: Theory and Applications.
Knapp, Vogan. Cohomological Induction and Unitary Representations.
Peitgen, Jurgan. Chaos and Fractals: A New Frontier of Science.
Charles Livingston. Knot Theory.
Keener and Sneyd. Mathematical Physiology.
Rosenberger and Lachin. Randomization in Clinical Trials.
Trefethen and Embree. Spectra and Pseudospectra: The Behavior of Nonnormal Matrices and Operators.
John Adam. Mathematics in Nature: Modeling Patterns in the Natural World.
Judith Singer. Applied Longitudinal Data Analysis: Modeling Change and Event Occurrence.
David Luenberger. Information Science.
Evarist Gine and Richard Nickl. Mathematical Foundations of Infinite-Dimensional Statistical Models.
Terence Tao. Hilbert’s Fifth Problem and Related Topics.
Michael Frame and Amelia Urry. Fractal Worlds: Grown, Built, and Imagined.
Anthony Zee. Group Theory in a Nutshell for Physicists.
Rick Parent. Computer Animation: Algorithms and Techniques.
Gamal and Kim. Network Information Theory.
Pardalos and Resende. Handbook of Applied Optimization.
Toselli and Widlund. Domain Decomposition Methods – Algorithms and Theory.
Daphne Koller. Probablistic Graphical Models.
Carletti, Gallarati, Beltrametti. Lectures on Curves, Surfaces and Projective Varieties
Hugh Montgomery. Ten Lectures on the Interface Between Analytic Number Theory and Harmonic Analysis
Sebastien Bubeck. The Complexities of Automation Blog Notes
	https://blogs.princeton.edu/imabandit/orf523-the-complexities-of-optimization/






Hard Science Books:



John G. Papstravridis. Analytical Mechanics: A Comprehensive Treatise on the Dynamics of Constrained Systems; For Engineers, Physicists, and Mathematicians.
Peter Davidson. An Introduction to Electrodynamics.
Jaffe and Taylor. The Physics of Energy.
Pauling. General Chemistry.
Kip Thorne, Roger Blandford. Modern Classical Physics: Optics, Fluids, Plasmas, Elasticity, Relativity, and Statistical Physics
Misner, Thorne. Gravitation.
Steven Weinberg. Lectures on Astrophysics.
Poisson and Will. Gravity: Newtonian, Post-Newtonian, Relativistic.
Walter Loveland. Modern Nuclear Chemistry.
Ramamurti Shankar. Quantum Field Theory and Condensed Matter: An Introduction.
Govert Schilling and Martin Rees. Ripples in Spacetime: Einstein, Gravitational Waves, and the Future of Astronomy.
Michael F. L'Annunziata. Radioactivity: Introduction and History, from the Quantum to Quarks, Second Edition.
Von Baeyer. Qbism: The Future of Quantum Physics.
Wilde. Quantum Information Theory.
Sterling, Laughlin. Principles of Neural Design.
Unger, Smolin. The Singular Universe and the Reality of Time: A Proposal in Natural Philosophy.
Aydin Tozeren. Human Body Dynamics: Classical Mechanics and Human Movement.
Horowitz. The Art of Electronics.
Rick Parent. Computer Animation: Algorithms and Techniques.
Scherz, Monk. Practical Electronics for Inventors, Fourth Edition.
Gyorgy Buzsaki. The Brain from Inside Out.
Marianne Legato. The Plasticity of Sex: The Molecular Biology and Clinical Features of Genomic Sex, Gender Identity and Sexual Behaviour.
Nick Chater. The Mind Is Flat: The Remarkable Shallowness of the Improvising Brain.
Narayanan, Bonneau, Felten, Miller, Golfeder. Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies: A Compehensive Introduction.
Peter Tse. The Neural Basis of Free Will.





General Literature I'm Interested In:



Mark Danielewski. House of Leaves.
Anything by Terry Prachett.








General Nonfiction / History:



Aldon Morris. The Scholar Denied: W. E. B. Du Bois and the Birth of Modern Sociology.
Peter Moore. The Weather Experiment: The Pioneers Who Sought to See the Future.
Benjamin Peters. How Not to Network a Nation: The Uneasy History of the Soviet Internet.
Anton Huurdeman. The Worldwide History of Telecommunications.
David Herlihy. Bicycle: The History.
Mcgovern, Mondavi. Ancient Wine: The Search for the Origins of Viniculture.
Clive Ruggles. Astronomy in Prehistoric Britain and Ireland.
Sanford Segal. Mathematics under the Nazis.
Eli Maor. The Pythagorean Theorem: A 4,000-Year History.
Eli Maor. Music by the Numbers: From Pythagoras to Schoenberg.
Eli Maor. To Infinity and Beyond: A Cultural History of the Infinite.
Mitchell Cohen. The Politics of Opera: A History from Monteverdi to Mozart.
Mark Williams. Ireland's Immortals: A History of the Gods of Irish Myth.
Eleanor Dickey. Learning Latin the Ancient Way: Latin Textbooks from the Ancient World.
Victoria Nelson. Gothika: Vampire Heroes, Human Gods, and the New Supernatural.
Steven Nadler. A Book Forged in Hell: Spinoza's Scandalous Treatise and the Birth of the Secular Age.
R Douglas. Orderly and Humane: The Expulsion of the Germans after the Second World War.
Allison Stranger. Whistleblowers: Honesty in America from Washington to Trump.
Susan Mattern. The Slow Moon Climbs: The Science, History, and Meaning of Menopause.
Sarah Milov. The Cigarette: A Political History.
Walker, Clarke. Witness to the Age of Revolution: The Odyssey of Juan Bautista Tupac Amaru.
Judith Herrin. Ravenna: Capital of Empire, Crucible of Europe.
Yuri Slezkine. The House of Government: A Saga of the Russian Revolution.
Hunt, Smith, Stok, Kallendorf. Classics from Papyrus to the Internet: An Introduction to Transmission and Reception.
Brook, Bourgon, Blue. Death by a Thousand Cuts.
Cooper, Leeuwen. Alan Turing: His Work and Impact.
Ruth Wisse. No Joke: Making Jewish Humor.
Stanchfield, Hahn. Drawn to Life: 20 Golden Years of Disney Master Classes.
Kyle Karper. The Fate of Rome: Climate, Disease, and the End of an Empire.
Mary Flanaghan. Critical Play: Radical Game Design.
Matthew Hongoltz-Hetling. A Libertarian Walks into a Bear.
Piero Glejeses. Visions of Freedom: Havana, Washington, Pretoria, and the Stuggle for Southern Africa.
Daniel Immerwahr. How to Hide an Empire: A History of the Greater United States.
Michael Klarman. The Framer's Coup: The Making of the United States Constitution.




Economics, Politics, Philosophy, and Sociology:



Various Authors. CORE Economics
Aachen, Bartels. Democracy for Realists: Why Elections Do Not Produce Responsive Government.
Allan Drazen. Political Economy in Macroeconomics.
Dorrien, Ross. Kantian Reason and Hegalian Spirit: The Idealistic Logic of Modern Theology.
Colin McGinn. Philosophy of Language: The Classics Explained.
Jason Stanley. How Propaganda Works.
Edmund Fawcett. Liberalism: The Life of an Idea.
Wailoo, Pemberton. The Troubled Dream of Genetic Medicine.
Kwame Appiah. The Ethics of Identity.
Harry Frankfurt. The Reasons of Love.
Stephen Gould. The Structure of Evolutionary Theory.
Chang, Lee. Economics: The User's Guide.
Rybczynski. Home: A Short History of an Idea.
Ganesh Sitaraman. The Crisis of the Middle-Class Constitution: Why Economic Inequality Threatens our Republic.
Kenneth Rogoff. The Curse of Cash.
David Luban. Torture, Power, and Law.
Andrew Fleischer. Moral Evil.
Jeffrey Reiman. As Free and as Just as Possible: The Theory of Marxian Liberalism.
Louise Mozingo. Pastoral Capitalism: A History of Suburban Corporate Landscapes.
Shelly Kagan. The Geometry of the Desert.
Julian Go. Postcolonial Thought and Social Theory.
Arleen Tuchman. Diabetes: A History of Race and Disease.
Terry Smith. Whitelash: Umasking White Grievance at the Ballot Box.
Kyle Devine. Decomposed: The Political Ecology of Music.
Adam Goodman. The Deportation Machine: America's Long History of Expelling Immigrants.
Annelien de Dijn. Freedom: An Unruly History.
Jane Ward. The Tragedy of Heterosexuality.
Various Authors. The Cambridge History of Communism.
Maxine Eichner. The Free-Market Family: How the Market Crushed the American Dream (and How It Can Be Restored).
Sasha Costanza-Chock. Design Justice: Community-Led Practices to Build the Worlds We Need.
TM Luhrmann. How God Becomes Real: Kindling the Presence of Invisible Others.
Mary Franks. The Cult of the Constitution.
Meredith Broussard. Artificial Unintelligence: How Computers Misunderstand the World.
Brian Tamanaha. A Realistic Theory of Law.
Daniel Denicola. Understanding Ignorance: The Surprising Impact of What We Don't Know.
Owen Flanaghan. The Really Hard Problem.
Acemoglu, Robinson. Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy.
Peter Schuck. Why Government Fails So Often: And How It Can Do Better.
Noam Chomsky. Understanding Power.
Gindin, Panitch. The Making of Global Capitalism: The Political Economy of American Empire.
Johan Fornas. Capitalism: A Companion to Marx's Economy Critique.
Mark Fischer. Capitalist Realism: Is There No Alternative.
Eitan Hersch. Politics is for Power.
Mark Fischer. Exiting the Vampire Castle.
Doughlas Rushkoff. Team Human.
The University of Oxford Podcasts. Critical Reasoning.
	https://podcasts.ox.ac.uk/series/critical-reasoning-beginners
David Harvey. Reading Capital with David Harvey
	http://davidharvey.org/reading-capital/
Immanuele Kant. Prolegomena To any Future Metaphysics.
David Graeber. Toward an Anthropological Theory of Value: The False Coin of Our Own Dreams.





Food:

Goldstein, Mintz. The Oxford Companion to Sugar and Sweets.
Various Authors. The Best American Food Writing (Annual).
Gerard Liger Belair. Uncorked: The Science of Champagne.