Every science assumes some data and some laws uncritically. Psychlogy, which studies finite individual minds (no collective behaviour, or discussions of the soul) assumes the data of (1) thoughts, feelings, decisions, desires, cognitions, and (2) a physical world in time and space in which these thoughts and feelings coexist and which (3) these thoughts and feelings know about. After correlating thoughts with the behaviour of the brain, psychology can go no further beyond breaking the boundaries of a natural science. The study of 'Souls', 'Egos', 'Ideas' are metaphysicals. Thus associationism (the study of how ideas may become associated in the mind) and spiritualism (the study of souls and its influence on the mind) are not psychology.

Chapter 1: The Scope of Psychology

The diversity of physical thoughts makes the human mind seem incredibly chaotic. The spiritualists tried to study this by attributing their cause to a single entity, the soul, and to categorize the various thoughts that made up the human mind. The associationists (Herbart, Hume, Mills, Bain), instead of considering a single entity producing these thoughts, tried instead to explain how they arrive in relation to one another, how they associate one another to come up in succession, or disassociate and repel one another, and thus construct a *psychology without a soul*. The soul then arises as a result of these complex associations between these thoughts.

From the perspective of the spiritualists, the only reason we have certain thoughts is that they reflect some a priori feature of the soul. The problem arises when these features do not act as they are expected, i.e. the faculty of memory forgets something, we are not able to analyze the causes of this, since we cannot analyze the mechanics that underlie this faculty. But the associationist must also admit that, the ideas that arise in the brain must arise *in something*, and that at least some notion of the soul must be admitted a priori by the associationists.