- Believes all knowledge has to be interconnected, because the test of truth is its ability to relate to other, independently established, claims.

"In Achieving some mastery of Kant's thought, readers put themselves in a position to understand many of the deepest currents in the history of ideas since Kant, including developments in our understanding of science, religion, literature, and the human mind itself."

- The critique studies epistemology and metaphysics.
	- Epistemology: study of knowledge. How much can we know, how certain is our knowledge, what counts as evidence and justification.
	- Metaphysics: Study of the nature of reality. What caused the universe? What is the nature of space?

	- Unlike most of his predecessors, studies the relation between epistemology and metaphysics.

	- Kant's Program is to reform metaphysics by sharpening it's epistemological foundations.

- The fact that all the coins in my wallet are silver colored is coincidental, or *cotingent*, and thus not a genuinely universal, *necessary* statement. Such statements should not only apply to current objects, but also to objects in the past and in the future.

- Kant's Big Point: If all the laws of science and mathematics are analytic, how can they be so useful in predicting outside experience?

- Goal: Establish Synthetic, Apriori Truths using the method of 'transcendental philosophy'. Some a priori synthetic conditions are essential in order for us to gather knowledge from our sensations, and are therefore true in order for us to get anywhere. Thus we take a presentation of an object, then we remove all conceptual elements and elements of the presentation derived from the senses, and what remains must be the faculty of conceptions own method of contribution to the presentation of an object.

The Transcendental Aesthetic

	- I.e. we cannot see depth directly from our vision, so Kant concludes that shape and space are obtained internally by our interpretive faculties (can blind people percieve space?). Moreover, objects *must* have shape and space, because otherwise we would never be able to distinguish between them (two drops of water cannot) and would thus prevent us from having clear knowledge. However, because of this use of transcendental philosophy, we can never know whether objects have spatial positions independantly of our senses.

	- We cannot sense time, so some sense of time perception must be a feature of our pure perception.

	- Prior to Kant, there was debate among the followers of Newton and Leibnitz as to whether space was a container for objects (Newton), or just a system of relative positions of objects (Leibnitz). Of course, space cannot be seen, which favors Leibnitz's view, but Newton argued that objects not only exist in relative position to one another, but move into future relative positions over time.

The Transcendental Analytic

	- We possess various a priori concepts, i.e. categories. The use of categories is to make judgements.

	- Cognizers are incapable of affirmation ('that is a chair') unless they also possess negation ('that is not a chair'). Thus negation is a category.

	- Cognizers are incapable of singling something out, without being able to talk about many things. Thus unity ('this is that chair') and pluraity ('that is one of many chairs') are concepts.

	- hypothetical judgements seem required for cognition: if a match is struck, then it will light. Thus cause and effect are concepts required for cognition.







Preface

- Main point: Philosophy makes an error when it tries to draw metaphysical conclusions about the way things are  apart from understanding the basis and extent to which we can obtain knowledge about the world.

- How can one know knowledge of universal claims?
	- Some facts are 'cotingent', they just happen to be true, by coincidence (e.g. all the coins in my wallet are silver).
	- Some facts are 'necessary', they 'have' to be true (the sum of the angles in a triangle is 180 degrees).

	- Because we think certain facts are necessary, they can be generalized to universal claims, whereas cotingent facts may not be generalized.

	- Since sensory observations only deal with 'past' objects, they never tell us anything about 'future' objects.

	- A claim is 'a priori' if it cannot be established by sensory experience, in particular, if it is necessary and universal.
	- A claim is 'a posteriori' if it is based on the evidence of the senses.

	- Philosophers before and after Kant argued that one can establish some a priori claims because of the meaning of the words in these claims (e.g. all bachelors are unmarried).

	- An 'analytic' claim is a claim in which the predicate concept is 'thought in' the subject concept.
	- A 'synthetic' claim is a claim in which this is not true.

	- Thus the problem of obtaining a priori analytic knowledge is settled.

	- If all a priori knowledge was analytic, there would be no problem in obtaining all relevant a priori knowledge. But Kant argues that this cannot be the case, since if all a priori knowledge was subject to relations between the meanings of ideas, none of this knowledge would ever have any application to the real world.

	- The goal of the book is to determine when synthetic, a posteriori claims are possible.

	- Kant agrees with the Empiricists, that all knowledge begins from sensory experience. But he questioned whether some knowledge also arises from the way our mind deals with sensory experience.

	- Kant's slam dunk: some a priori synthetic claims are necessarily true, because these claims are necessary if we are ever going to have knowledge in the first place. Knowledge established via this method Kant calls 'trancendental philosophy'.








DEFINITIONS:

Experience: Knowledge of objects gained by processing sensory perceptions.

Cognition: A conscious mental representation of an object.

Presentation (Representation in other translations): Any mental state which is about an object.

Concept: A Presentation that can be applied to more than one thing.

A Priori Concept: A Concept that applies *genuinely* universally and necessary throughout the objects we encounter.

Category: An A Priori Concept Necessary for Cognition.

Intuition: The Mental process of relating a cognition immediately to an object, or the cognition which relates immediately to such an object.

Presentation and Intuition: A Presentation is an object of our direct awareness. An intuition is an immediate representation of an object.

Judgement: Rouhly speaking, a propositional cognition. More precisely, a judgement is a higher order *objective* cognition, i.e. relating to a family of cognitions, in which concepts are predicated of these objects, and related to one another using various connectives.

Truth: A Predicate of Judgements. A judgement is true if it agrees with it's object, i.e. the structure of the object corresponds to the syntactic part of the judgement, under points of view that any other rational human would agree to.

Knowledge: Justified, True Belief.

A Priori Claims: Necessary, *genuinely* universal claims independent of experience, Contrasted with 'A Posteriori' knowledge.

Pure A Priori Knowledge: Knowledge involving no empirical concepts. The proposition "Every change has its cause is a priori, but not purely a priori, since the concept of change can only be obtained by experience".

Characteristic: A partial presentation considered as the basic of an entire presentation

Analytic Judgements: 




Apperception: The faculty or capacity for judging according with a rule, for applying concepts. An activity necessary and parallel to perceiving. To achieve recognition of a unified object, the mind must perform an act of judgment; it must find how various represented elements are connected to one another.

Distinctness and Clarity: Kant uses the concepts of distinctness and clarity, as developed by Descartes, and later refined by Locke and Leibniz. Very roughly speaking, an idea is 'clear' if it can be distinguished from al other ideas. An idea is 'distinct' if all of the characteristics that make up the idea are clear, and these characteristics are each clear individually, so that the overarching idea can be distinguished from other ideas by abstracting from its component parts. But Kant may mean more by distinctness than this definition, since he discusses discursive distinctness (through the clarity of the arguments concepts) and intuitive distinctness (through the clarity of the examples that make up the argument)

Unconditioned Knowledge: An Ultimate explanation of something, i.e. a because that admits of no further because.









Preface A

All cognition starts from a reaction to human sensory experience. But the nature of the human mind causes more cognitions to develop from these sensory experiences, which are more and more remote from this experience, eventually cognizing certain propositions which surpass all ability for the human mind to answer. We feel dissatisfied by having unanswerable questions, which forces us to resort to using principles that have no grounding in sensory experience. Since we cannot compare the utility of these principles via experience, we run into many contradictions. Knowledge going beyond the boundary of all experience is called *metaphysics*.

Metaphysics used to be known as the foundation of all knowledge. But because a consistent foundation for metaphysics has not been found, and because the rigour of the enlightenment has brought clarity to its underlying errors, people now take metaphysics with disdain, and treat it indifferently. The skeptics came, who were unable to build up any solid theory (Kant thinks it is against their nature). Locke came, and it seemed he might build up a theory of understanding that would give a foundation to metaphysics. But it wasn't satisfactory (Question: Why does Kant feel it is not satisfactory).

It is futile to be indifferent to metaphysics, because the inquiries that arise in it are natural. Even those who are indifferent eventually come back to metaphysics assertions, thought perhaps describing the language they use to talk about such assertions. Thus it is the job of the human mind to critique the principles by which which the mind obtains knowledge, and to get rid of all baseless principles. This is the goal set out in the cirtique of pure reason.

Kant believes his critique has fully resolved the problem of identifying the fundamental principles which lead to problems in metaphysics, and has fully resolved them. Dogmatists of metaphysics who seek answers to all questions will be unsatisfied, because Kant believes that it is not possible for the human mind to obtain answers to all metaphysical inquiries. All the knowledge he gives is certain, because any a priori knowledge we know must be necessarily true in itself, without making any assumptions. Kant however, does believe that he has obtained 'complete' principles with which to conduct metaphysical inquiries. There is reason to be optimistic on this point, because the principles of pure reason cannot be expanded upon by anything taken from experience.









Preface B

We can judge how firm a family of inquiries is by the amount of backtracking that has to be done, and the amount of disagreement that exists in the scientific community. Kant's goal is to obtain such a foundation for pure reason, though the cost of the firm foundation is that the path to obtaining answers to certain propositions must be seen as futile.

Logic is such a firm science. Since Aristotle, no backtracking has been required, except for the purposes of clarity, elegance, or pedagogy. Another components of its firmness is that it is essentially complete. It does not try and go beyond its own domain (to provide exposition on the formal analytical rules of human thought). But it remains the foundation of all sciences, presupposed for the evaluation of all knowledge, yet to aquire knowledge before one can judge such knowledge, we must look to other sciences.

There are two ways that reason's cognition refers to the objects of which it cognizes. The first is a cognition that allows us to distinguish that object from other objects, a *theoretical cognition*. The second is a cognition that allows us to directly realize the phenomenon of the object, a *practical cognition*. Two sciences determine their objects a priori: mathematics and physics. Mathematics obtains these objects completely pure a priori, whereas physics the determination is using both pure cognition, and some other source of cognition.



When someone studies geometry from the perspective of greek demonstrations, they do not gain knowledge by what they see in the figure (i.e. through sensory experience). Instead, they gain information apriori, gaining information from what follows necessarily from the concepts of geometry he himself has started with. This is the revolution that lead to so much firm knowledge being gained in Science.

When scientists started conducting experiments, they realized they do not gain information just be observing sensory information, but instead using principles to devise experiments that compel nature to either answer, or not to answer, to these principles. Otherwise our observations are coincidental, they have no plan at all, and cannot be used to gain firm knowledge. This is the revolution that lead to so much firm knowledge being gained in Science.

On the other hand, metaphysics, the core of all cognition, has not had such a revolution and gained firm knowledge about the core concepts of reality. Kant's main idea is to switch from assuming that knowledge and intuitions should be judged by how they conform to a particular object or concept, and instead to assume that the *experience* of an object or concept must conform to a particular concept. This is justified because one can only gain knowledge through sensory experience via understanding that experience, and so experience must conform to the rules of understanding. One can then abstract these rules of thought to knowledge gained without sensory experience. This flipped perspective fits metaphysics really well, because we want to discover knowledge about concepts which we are unable to judge separately using sensory experience. By applying this method, we will come to realize that all knowledge gained a priori about things is what we put into them ourselves (THINK ABOUT WHAT THIS MEANS LATER).

An important point is that by making metaphysics more concrete also means making more clear the boundary of this knowledge. Kant provides an example on how logic is complete by means of limiting it's scope of knowledge to a comprehensive exposition of the formal rules of thought, and nothing else. One consequence of Kant's technique is a realization that we shall never be able to gain knowledge beyond the boundaries of *possible* experience (Kant also argued this on a separate basis in his other work, "The Trancendental Analytic").

One of the demands of rationality is that it compels us to demand unconditional knowledge. In particular, it assumes 'the unconditioned is given', i.e. that there exists ultimate explanations for any knowledge. We are also compelled to think of metaphysical objects ('souls', 'god') as objects that exist independently of the mind.

 This is a demand that we cannot dismiss.


Suppose that we could not obtain this unconditional knowledge purely by the appearance of objects, but rather only by the way they are by themselves (a thing-in-itself). If this is true, 


COME BACK TO THIS














INTRODUCTION

I On The Distinction Between Pure and Empirical Cognition

All cognition begins with the senses. The object which we experience brings about presentations of that object. The mind then compares the different presentations is acquires, connects them, separates them, and thus processes the sensory data into what we call *experience*. No cognition precedes experience.

But that does not mean all possible cognition starts with experience. Even experiential cognition might only be possible through what our own mind supplies in itself, though sensory data prompts the mind to work. Our mind does this so subtly that we may not even realize we have used the minds power in itself. So it is certainly possible that certain cognitions arise independently of experience. We call such cognitions *a priori*. Conversely, a cognition whose source is in experience is called *a posteriori*.

Some information is obtained in a manner which is partly a priori. If someone has undermined the foundations of their house, he would know a priori that his house would cave in, without experiencing the cave in himself. But it is not possible to obtain this judgement completely a priori. Because a person needs experiential cognition in order to come to the judgement that bodies have weight, despite the fact that one can derive a priori from this that the house would collapse.

By a *pure a priori* cognition, we mean those cognitions that occur *absolutely* independently of all experience. The cognition of the house caving in is a priori, but not pure a priori, because the cognitions of house that are contained in this cognition are not a priori cognitions. Similarily, the statement "Every change has it's cause" is an apriori proposition (this cognition could not possibly arise from experience, because it is a universal statement), but it is not pure a priori, because the concept of change is derived from experience (Is the cognition of cause derived from experience?). It is the central question of this work whether pure a priori cognitions are possible.

II We Are In Possession of Certain A Priori Cognitions, And Even Common Understanding Is Never Without Them

Experience tells us when a judgement is true or false, but it does not tell us that it is impossible for it to be otherwise. Thus experience cannot tell us about the *necessity* of a judgement. Thus a proposition involving necessity is an a priori judgement. If it is a judgement about cognitions that themselves are pure a priori, 

	First, then, if we find a proposition such that in thinking it we think at the same time its necessity, then it is an a priori judgment; and if, in addition, it is not derived from any proposition except one that itself has the validity of a necessary proposition, then it is absolutely a priori. (WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO DERIVE A JUDGEMENT FROM A PROPOSITION?)

Secondly, no experience can tell us about an unlimited universal judgement, only some approximation to a universal truth via induction (an *empirical universality*, such as the statement 'all bodies have weight', with which we were able to obtain the a priori judgement that an undermined house would fall). Thus strictly universal judgements must also be apriori.

	Hence necessity and strict universality are safe indicators of a priori cognition, and they do moreover belong together inseparably	(WHY ARE THEY INSEPARABLE?)

A mathematical statement is therefore a practical example of pure a priori knowledge, since it applies to any object whatsoever, and therefore is entirely universal. A more important (for Kant) example of pure a priori knowledge is any judgement or cognition that is indispensible from the possibility of experience, for if such a cognition was impossible, then experience would be possible, and thus all cognition, since all cognition beigns in experience. The human mind strives seeks an ultimate explanation for things, and this line of reasoning would suggest that there is no universal source for this knowledge. Thus it cannot be true that such judgements are gained by experience.

To determine an example of this kind of cognition. Consider the concept of a "body". Suppose you omit all experience that induces a cognition of a body, i.e. the hardness or softness of an object, or its color, or its weight. Even then, the cognition of the space occupied by the body would still exist, and so the cognition of space is an a priori cognition. (IS IT PURE A PRIORI?)

III Philosophy Needs a Science That Will Determine The Possibility, The Principles, And The Range Of All Apriori Cognitions

There are also certain congitions that go beyond those objects perceived by experience. For instance, these include the concepts of God, Freedom, or Immortality. Inquiries into these cognitions is known as *metaphysics*. We view these inquiries as so sublime that inquiry into them is irresistable to the human mind. In fact, we are so drawn to these inquiries that we might not even question whether it is possible to obtain knowledge of such concepts. This seems too risky, especially given the fact that since none of our judgements can ever be refuted by experience, the only thing stopping us from speculating is a clear contradiction. To avoid this, we should take time to inquire into the possibility of limitations in our understanding of these concepts. It is certainly possible to obtain some pure a priori cognitions with a concrete foundation, e.g. mathematics, so we should not be completely distraught, but we should still be careful.

A large part of our mental power goes towards dissecting the content of cognitions we already know. This just clarifies prior cognitions, and does not give us new content. This kind of reasoning (obtaining cognitions in an *analytic* manner) has proved to be safe. But in order to do analytic reasoning one at leasts need some cognitions which are foreign to analytic reasoning, and Kant's goal is to distinguish these cognitions, and to determine how one might obtain them in a concrete manner.

IV On The Distinction Between Analytic and Synthetic Judgements

Here Kant more deeply explains the way he will categorize types of judgements. Judgements involve a subject and a predicate. If the information contained in a cognition of the predicate belongs to the subject, we call the judgement an *analytic* judgement. Other kinds of judgements will be called *synthetic*. One way to think of analytic judgements are that verification of them does not really tell us anything new, but only elucidates our cognition of the predicates and subjects contained in the judgement.

An example of an analytic a priori statement is "all physical bodies are extended". Verifying the truth of this statement just means having to break apart my understanding of the term "body". The statement "All bodies have mass", on the other hand, is not an analytic a priori statement, because having mass is not necessarily contained in the cognition of a body, and so the proposition is synthetic. It is only experience that makes it possible to obtain a synthesis of the cognition of heaviness with the cognition of body, by experiencing those objects through which I abstracted the cognition of a body, and finding that heaviness is always related to these objects.

All a posteriori judgements are synthetic; there is no need to use experience to come to the judgement when we could determine that judgement analytically by terms of dissecting the cognitions we already have in our mind, and considering the judgement analytically would also give the benefit of obtaining the *necessity* of the judgement, which can never be obtained a posteriori. And all analytic statements are a priori.

The difficult question is whether it is possible to have *pure a priori synthetic cognitions*. To be synthetic means to go beyond knowledge contained in cognitions, but being a priori, one cannot gain this cognition from experience, and so one must go beyond in a different sense. Consider the proposition "Everything that happens has a cause". The unlimited universality of this statement means the statement is a priori, but it is not analytic knowledge since something happening does not necessarily have a cause (the cognition of something that happens encloses within it the concept of time, so we can derive the analytic cognition of "everything that happens, happens at a particular time". So if "Everything that happens has a cause" is a synthetic, a priori judgement, how can one come to terms with this judgement?

V All Theoretical Sciences of Reason Contain Synthetic A Priori Judgements As Principles

The proposition "7 + 5 = 12" may seem at first to be an analytical judgement, which follows by examing the cognition of 7 and of 12. But there is nothing contained in 7 and 5 which makes 12. (QUESTION: FROM THIS DO WE INCUR THAT WHAT IS THE PREDICATE AND SUBJECT IN A STATEMENT MATTERS. FOR INSTANCE, IS THERE A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN "12 IS THE SUM OF 5 AND 7" and "THE SUM OF 5 AND 7 MAKE 12"?). Any axiom ("The Straight Line Between Points is Shortest") must also be synthetic, since there is no part of the cognition of a straight line that implies it is the shortest line between two points.

Physical principles are synthetic a priori judgements, i.e. the conservation of matter, or the conservation of momentum.

Metaphysics *must* have apriori judgements, because it wants to obtain new judgements, rather than just to elucidate pre-existing concepts, which would then come a posteriori.

Because all theoretical sciences contain synthetic a priori judgements, a certain mystery lies concealed there that is integral to rigourously study if we want to make our understanding of knowledge secure and reliable.

VI The General Problem of Pure Reason

We now have some examples of practical synthetic judgements, in which to judge our forthcoming study of the basis of establishing synthetic a priori judgements. Since the concept of synthetic judgements has not been introduced before, there has been relatively little work on study whether one can establish synthetic a priori judgements. The only person to have come close is David Hume, who worked with the particular proposition "all effects have a cause". He believed it is impossible to establish the truth of this proposition a priori, and that metaphysics is itself a cause of mistaking synthetic a priori knowledge with reasoning about empirical knowledge we have dealt with often enough that we treat it as an a priori judgement habitually. But from our standpoint this clearly cannot be true, for otherwise, as we have argued in V, mathematics and physics would have no grounding, and it would not make sense that these sciences applied to any of the cognitions we deal with in real life. In solving this main problem, we will therefore also answer the question of how pure mathematics and physics is possible. By doing this, we give metaphysics the grounding of a science that prevents the production of baseless assertions leading to the philosophy of skepticism.

VII Idea and Division Of a Special Science Under The Name Of Critique Of Pure Reason

REVIEW THIS AFTER READING GROUP

Pure reason is that component of reason that contains the principles for gaining knowledge absolutely a priori. This book is entitled a *critique* of pure reason, because it is a science that only judges pure reason, its sources, and its limitations, serving as a preliminary study of the sum of all principles for which all pure a priori knowledge can be acquired.

Knowledge is *transcendental* if it deals not with objects, but knowledge of our way of gaining knowledge about objects in general, predicated on the belief that gaining knowledge about objects is possible. A system of this knowledge would be called *transcendental philosophy*. (Question: Why is analytic transcendental knowledge not compelte? Is it complete nowadays? Can one `complete' the analysis?)

The basic concepts of morality and god will not come into play here; they are not part of transcendental philosophy, even though they are objects we must concieve of a priori, most of the propositions of that subject do involve experiential knowledge, i.e. pleasure and pain and desire.

Human cognition has two components: *sensibility* and *understanding*. Through sensibility, we obtain objects upon which we desire to gain knowledge. Though understanding they are thought about. The former precedes the latter, and so we will begin with a study of this first.

(Question: I'm not convinced about the argument that we can complete transcendental philosphy because it's lal in our head)




Both necessity and universality are linked (if something is necessary, it is true in all possible)

* and they do more over belong together inseparably *






Question: What do we mean by 'we think at the same time'?

Secondly, no experience can tell us 'strictly' *universal* truth of a proposition, though only with assumed universality (Question: What do we mean by strictly).

Question: I Think, I Exist, If I Think, Then I Exist. Which of these propositions is a priori / synthetic?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peano_axioms


A) I Think
B) I Exist
C) If I Think, Then I Exist
D) For any object, if that object thinks, then that object exists.
























THE TRANSCENDENTAL AESTHETIC

INTRO

Intuitions are direct representations of objects and are the means by which thought can form cognition. But these intuitions are only possible when the mind is affected in some manner. The *sensibility* of the mind is defined to be the power of the mind that is able to create presentations as a result of being affected in some manner. Concepts instead arise from thinking about objects. The effect an object has on our sensibility is called *sensation*. 

*Empirical* intuitions are those intuitions that arise from sensation. Characteristics of an object corresponding to an empirical intuition are called the *matter* of that object. Characteristics of an object corresponding to an empirical intuition that bring about that the object can be put into relation with other objects will be called the *form* of that object. Sensation cannot be the fundamental cause of forms in the mind, for otherwise we could never understand those sensations in the first place. Thus although all matter is given a posteriori, the fundamental forms must be in some sense a priori.

All presentations that are not affected by sensation are called *pure*. The pure form of sensibility is called *pure intuition*. The investigation into the principles of a pure sensibility will be called *transcendental aesthetic*. To do this, we will first isolate sensibility from any understanding, i.e. cognitions that are not intuitions. What remains will be empirical intuition. Then we will throw away everything arising from sensation, so nothing remains but pure intuition and the pure form of appearances. We will find that space and time are two pure forms of empirical intuition.

METAPHYSICAL EXPOSITION OF SPACE

Our mind presents object as outside of ourselves, and we can determine their shape and magnitude, and relation to one another. The intuition of our soul occurs independently of space, but is still affected by time, which is not sensed from outside of ourselves. It is a question as to whether these forms are cognitions of properties of objects that exist independently of our mind, or whether these forms are purely subjective.

Space cannot be empirical because in order for us to refer to sensations as outside ourselves, we must already have a cognition of space. We could not percieve objects as 'outside of ourself' without this form. And experience does not tell us when objects are apart or alongside one another. We can only have presentation of one space, and when we speak of many different spaces, we mean only parts of one underlying space. Parts of space cannot be presented without space, but only thought within that space. Thus there is an underlying a priori intuition underlying space.

In any concept one can consider infinitely many subpresentations (special cases of the above presentation) but these subpresentations do not occur 'within' concept. Thus space is an *INTUITION*, not a concept.
	
	DON'T UNDERSTNAD B40

TRANSCENDENTAL EXPOSITION OF THE CONCEPT OF SPACE

What we mean by a *transcendental exposition* is explaining how a concept allows the possibility of other synthetic a priori cognitions. We must explain how this concept actually flows out, and how such other cognitions are only possible given the initial concept.

How must we present space in order for geometry to allow the possibiliy of the properties of space? The intuitions of geometry must be pure, because it allows the understanding of space. In particular, we cannot learn anything outside of ourselves from this understanding, but only an understanding of the presentations obtained by sensibility, that rely on the form that is space.

CONCLUSIONS FROM THE ABOVE CONCEPTS

Space is real in regards to the fact that we can associate it with any external presentations, but ideal in regard that we cannot associate it to objects in themselves, independent of our perceptions of them.

B44 or B45? Besides space, on the other hand, no other subjective presentation that
is referred to something external could be called an a priori objective presentation. IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE KANT JUSTIFIES THIS? Hence, strictly speaking, ideality does not apply to them, even though they agree with the presentation of space inasmuch as they belong merely to the subjective character ofthe kind of sense involved. They may belong, e.g., to the sense of sight, ofhearing, or of touch,68 by [being] sensations69 of colors, sounds, or heat. Yet because they are mere sensations rather than intuitions, they do not allow us to cognize any object at all, let alone a priori.

An 'external' object is nothing but a presentation resulting from our sensibility and the implicit form of space used to relate these presentations. The true thing in itself is not cognized at all through these presentations, and cannot be. Nor, on the other hand, is the thing in itself ever at issue in experience (QUESTION: WHY IS IT NOT AN ISSUE).

METAPHYSICAL EXPOSITION OF THE CONCEPT OF TIME

Time is not an empirical concept, since experiences does not tell us about time. We would not think of experiences happening simultaneously, or in succession, if we did not already have the presentation of time a priori. Thus time is a pure form.

We can remove appearances from time, 

	All actuality of appearances is possible only in time. (WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?)

	A32: DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY "DIFFERENT TIMES CANNOT BE SIMULTANEOUS" is not analytic?

	DON'T UNDERSTAND A LOT OF THIS SECTION

TRANSCENDENTAL EXPOSITION OF THE CONCEPT OF TIME

The concept of change, or the concept of motion, and only possible given the presentation of time. If these concepts were not a priori, we could never learn about them from experience without having time. Moreover, time also implies to inner appearances.

CONCLUSIONS FROM THESE CONCEPTS

We wouldn't have a notion of time if we took out all notions of experience, since it does not exist apart from any object. Thus it is a form, not a concept.

DON'T UNDERSTAND THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN FORM AND CONCEPT

Time is purely subjective, because apart from the subject, time is nothing.

DON'T UNDERSTAND THIS EITHER. COME BACK TO TIME ANOTHER DAY.







DO NOT UNDERSTAND THIS YET:

For what necessarily impels
us to go beyond the boundary of experience and of all appearances is the
unconditioned that reason demands in things84 in themselves; reason­
necessarily and quite rightfully-demands this unconditioned for every­
thing conditioned, thus demanding that the series of conditions be com­
pleted by means of that unconditioned




https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/phpr.12828
https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/kant-metaphysics/
https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/kant-judgment/