St. John's college has intrigued me since I learned of it back in January for two primary reasons. First, it is the perfect environment to form connections with people from diverse, cultural backgrounds. This is key to help me integrate different cultural backgrounds into my own research. Additionally, St. Johns. provides a intersection point of peers from diverse research backgrounds. The college is the perfect place for my peers and I to understand how to best combine our intellectual interests to serve the general public.

Despite common misconception, communication is essential to mathematical research. Teamwork is the primary way of overcoming mental barriers in theoretical discussions. Mathematicians build on the traditions developed in their research groups. I believe innovation can occur by bridging discussion between research groups disconnected due to language and cultural barriers. Fields medalist Cédric Villani annually travels to central Africa to tap into the area's emerging mathematical potential. More famously, G.H. Hardy said his greatest mathematical discovery was his student Srinivasa Ramanujan, educated obscured from academia in rural India. Intercultural understanding is crucial to this technique. Last summer, this lead me to the Harbin Institute of Technology in northern China. Through an intensive Mandarin language study program, I shared and acquired cultural knowledge from fellow students from China, Russia, Thailand, and Korea. I knew the program's impact when I was able to discuss how someone sitting next to me on a train ride to Beijing applied to program, without using a word of English. It would be an honour to have the proficiency to discuss how different research groups in China think about my research field. St. John's college is the perfect environment to learn about other cultures so I'll have sufficient experience to form intercultural bonds in mathematics.

As a graduate student, it is easy to `trap yourself' in your department. But it's crucial to experience other aspects of life. One reason is to allow you to return to your research with a fresh perspective. I've mitigated this by joining the UBC film society and the ballroom dance team. St John's college runs even more events I'd love to participate in to maintain my mental health (my friend informed me about Tango and Yoga classes!). But these events are crucial from another point of view. Researchers must pursue diverse intellectual pursuits to comprehend how our narrow expertises combine to directly aid the public. Even more importantly, we must communicate this knowledge to the general public. If more academics involved themselves in public discourse, I feel less people would be swayed to the rising tide of anti-intellectualism in the west. I realized this last year when a neuroscientist convinced me to work together with a computer engineer at the University of Alberta's 2017 `World's Challenge' Challenge, combining each of our strengths to design an application educating the public about how their personal shopping statistics directly influences the environment around them. If I get into St. John's, I look forward to discussing with residents how our research can be collectively used to impact the general public.